README.md, before:

# About

This repository contains a list of short documents that answer most of the common questions related to using [scriptr.io](https://www.scriptr.io), in complement to our [documentation](https://www.scriptr.io/documentation#documentation-get-attachmentgetAttachment). It is meant to be used in two ways: 
- (1) If you are new to [scriptr.io](https://www.scriptr.io), it is recommended to either start with the [tutorial](#tutorial) and/or to read the content of the how-to list below sequentially, to teach yourself how to use [scriptr.io](https://www.scriptr.io) to implement your iot applications. 
- (2) If you already are familiar with scriptr.io, pick a **how-to** article that matches your needs.

# Pre-requisites

- **Make sure that you already [signed-up for a free account](https://www.scriptr.io/register)!** 
- If you don't know yet what scriptr.io is, **check [what scriptr.io is and what it allows you to do](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/whatis/whatis_scriptr.md)**.

# Tutorial

If you prefer starting by checking how to develop an end-to-end application, try [this tutorial](./tutorials/endtoendapp1/README.md)

# How to...

- [How to create a secure and scalable API?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/api/create_api.md)
- [How to retrieve the parameters sent to my API via http?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/api/read_http_request_parameters.md)
- [How to accept requests from other domains (CORS settings)?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/api/cors_settings.md)
- [How to persist data?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/data/persist_data.md)
- [How to retrieve my persisted data?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/data/query_data.md)
- [How to browse through the data that I have persisted?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/data/view_data.md)
- [How to create validation rules (schemas) on my data?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/data/create_schema.md)
- [How to apply automatic validation (schemas) on my data?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/data/create_schemabased_docs.md)
- [How to obtain authentication tokens?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/api/obtain_auth_token.md)
- [How to create devices in my account?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/acl/create_devices_users.md)
- [How to create users in my account?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/acl/create_users.md)
- [How to create groups of devices or groups of users?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/acl/create_devices_groups.md)
- [How to restrict access to my API?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/acl/restrict_access_to_api.md)
- [How to restrict access to my data?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/acl/protect_data.md)
- [How to give remote clients unrestricted access to my API?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/acl/unprotected_api.md)
- [How to create modules?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/modules/create_modules.md)
- [How to customize the URL of my API (create a sub-domain)?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/config/create_subdomain.md)
- [How to send emails from my scripts?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/util/sendmail.md)
- [How to log messages to check the execution of my scripts?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/debug/log_msg.md)
- [How to display simple values in a dashboard?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/ui/create_dashboard.md)
- [How to display historical data in a dashboard?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/ui/create_dashboard_historical.md)
- [How to customize a dashboard?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/ui/customize_dashboard.md)
- [How to know what data structure is expected by a widget I add to my dashboard?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/ui/what_data_structure_for_widget.md)
- [How to update my dashboard in real time?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/ui/realtime_dashboard.md)
- [How to create web user interfaces (HTML/JavaScript)?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/ui/create_web_ui.md)
- [How to invoke a remote REST API from a script?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/remote/invoke_rest_api.md)
- [How to transform an XML payload to JSON and vice-versa?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/util/xmltojson.md)
- [How to Base64 encode/decode a string?](/util/base64encoding.md)
- [How to transform an incoming JSON payload into another JSON structure (JSON mapper)?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/util/jsonmapper.md)
- [How to persist files sent to my API via http?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/data/upload_files.md)
- [How to send a file to a remote REST API?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/remote/send_file_to_api.md)
- [How to schedule the automatic execution of a script (cron job)?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/cron/create_cron_job.md)
- [How to unschedule the automatic execution of a script (cron job)?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/cron/unschedule_cron_job.md)
- [How to change the standard response structure of my API?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/api/change_response.md)
- [How to download a file from scriptr.io via http?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/data/download_file.md)
- [How to subscribe one or many scripts to a remote mqtt topic?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/mqtt/subscribe_to_remote_mqtt.md)
- [How to publish a message to a remote mqtt topic from a script?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/mqtt/publish_to_remote_mqtt.md)
- [How to publish an mqtt message to my API?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/api/publish_mqtt_msgs_to_script.md)
- [How to read the messages sent to my API through mqtt?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/api/read_mqtt_messages.md)
- [How to obtain credentials to allow devices to publish mqtt messages to my scriptr.io account?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/mqtt/obtain_credentials.md)
- [How to invoke my API (scripts) using websockets?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/api/invoke_api.md)
- [How to publish data to scriptr.io using websockets?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/publish_subscribe/publish_ws.md)
- [How to communicate with a remote websocket endpoint?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/websockets/send_receive_msgs.md)
- [How to use decision tables?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/decision_tables/create_decision_table.md)
- [How to invoke a decision table from a script?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/decision_tables/invoke_decision_table_from_script.md)
- [How to control the versions of my application and scripts?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/teamwork/version_control.md)
- [How to create queued jobs?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/queuing/queue_tasks.md)
- [How to dynamically generate files from my scripts](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/data/generate_file_from_script.md#how-to-dynamically-generate-a-file-from-within-a-script)

Commit message:

added a link to the UIComponents tutorial

README.md, after:

# About

This repository contains a list of short documents that answer most of the common questions related to using [scriptr.io](https://www.scriptr.io), in complement to our [documentation](https://www.scriptr.io/documentation#documentation-get-attachmentgetAttachment). It is meant to be used in two ways: 
- (1) If you are new to [scriptr.io](https://www.scriptr.io), it is recommended to either start with the [tutorial](#tutorial) and/or to read the content of the how-to list below sequentially, to teach yourself how to use [scriptr.io](https://www.scriptr.io) to implement your iot applications. 
- (2) If you already are familiar with scriptr.io, pick a **how-to** article that matches your needs.

# Pre-requisites

- **Make sure that you already [signed-up for a free account](https://www.scriptr.io/register)!** 
- If you don't know yet what scriptr.io is, **check [what scriptr.io is and what it allows you to do](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/whatis/whatis_scriptr.md)**.

# Tutorial

If you prefer starting by checking how to develop an end-to-end application, try [this tutorial](./tutorials/endtoendapp1/README.md)

Or if you need to build a full webapp complete with working login and widget, try [this tutorial](./tutorials/UIComponents/README.md)

# How to...

- [How to create a secure and scalable API?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/api/create_api.md)
- [How to retrieve the parameters sent to my API via http?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/api/read_http_request_parameters.md)
- [How to accept requests from other domains (CORS settings)?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/api/cors_settings.md)
- [How to persist data?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/data/persist_data.md)
- [How to retrieve my persisted data?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/data/query_data.md)
- [How to browse through the data that I have persisted?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/data/view_data.md)
- [How to create validation rules (schemas) on my data?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/data/create_schema.md)
- [How to apply automatic validation (schemas) on my data?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/data/create_schemabased_docs.md)
- [How to obtain authentication tokens?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/api/obtain_auth_token.md)
- [How to create devices in my account?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/acl/create_devices_users.md)
- [How to create users in my account?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/acl/create_users.md)
- [How to create groups of devices or groups of users?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/acl/create_devices_groups.md)
- [How to restrict access to my API?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/acl/restrict_access_to_api.md)
- [How to restrict access to my data?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/acl/protect_data.md)
- [How to give remote clients unrestricted access to my API?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/acl/unprotected_api.md)
- [How to create modules?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/modules/create_modules.md)
- [How to customize the URL of my API (create a sub-domain)?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/config/create_subdomain.md)
- [How to send emails from my scripts?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/util/sendmail.md)
- [How to log messages to check the execution of my scripts?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/debug/log_msg.md)
- [How to display simple values in a dashboard?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/ui/create_dashboard.md)
- [How to display historical data in a dashboard?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/ui/create_dashboard_historical.md)
- [How to customize a dashboard?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/ui/customize_dashboard.md)
- [How to know what data structure is expected by a widget I add to my dashboard?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/ui/what_data_structure_for_widget.md)
- [How to update my dashboard in real time?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/ui/realtime_dashboard.md)
- [How to create web user interfaces (HTML/JavaScript)?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/ui/create_web_ui.md)
- [How to invoke a remote REST API from a script?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/remote/invoke_rest_api.md)
- [How to transform an XML payload to JSON and vice-versa?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/util/xmltojson.md)
- [How to Base64 encode/decode a string?](/util/base64encoding.md)
- [How to transform an incoming JSON payload into another JSON structure (JSON mapper)?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/util/jsonmapper.md)
- [How to persist files sent to my API via http?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/data/upload_files.md)
- [How to send a file to a remote REST API?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/remote/send_file_to_api.md)
- [How to schedule the automatic execution of a script (cron job)?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/cron/create_cron_job.md)
- [How to unschedule the automatic execution of a script (cron job)?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/cron/unschedule_cron_job.md)
- [How to change the standard response structure of my API?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/api/change_response.md)
- [How to download a file from scriptr.io via http?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/data/download_file.md)
- [How to subscribe one or many scripts to a remote mqtt topic?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/mqtt/subscribe_to_remote_mqtt.md)
- [How to publish a message to a remote mqtt topic from a script?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/mqtt/publish_to_remote_mqtt.md)
- [How to publish an mqtt message to my API?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/api/publish_mqtt_msgs_to_script.md)
- [How to read the messages sent to my API through mqtt?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/api/read_mqtt_messages.md)
- [How to obtain credentials to allow devices to publish mqtt messages to my scriptr.io account?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/mqtt/obtain_credentials.md)
- [How to invoke my API (scripts) using websockets?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/api/invoke_api.md)
- [How to publish data to scriptr.io using websockets?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/publish_subscribe/publish_ws.md)
- [How to communicate with a remote websocket endpoint?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/websockets/send_receive_msgs.md)
- [How to use decision tables?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/decision_tables/create_decision_table.md)
- [How to invoke a decision table from a script?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/decision_tables/invoke_decision_table_from_script.md)
- [How to control the versions of my application and scripts?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/teamwork/version_control.md)
- [How to create queued jobs?](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/queuing/queue_tasks.md)
- [How to dynamically generate files from my scripts](https://github.com/scriptrdotio/howto/blob/master/data/generate_file_from_script.md#how-to-dynamically-generate-a-file-from-within-a-script)
